.TH ADTOOL 1 "October 2002" "adtool 1.2"
.SH NAME
adtool - Active Directory administration tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B adtool
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BR \-H \ uri\fR]
[\c
.BR \-D \ binddn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-w \ bindpasswd\fR]
[\c
.BR \-b \ searchbase\fR]
.BR operation
[\c
.BR arguments...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I adtool
is a unix command line utility for Active Directory administration.  Features include user and group creation, deletion, modification, password setting and directory query and search capabilities.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Output usage information.
.TP
.B \-v
Output version information.
.TP
.B \-H uri
The uri of the Active Directory server to connect to, eg. ldap://ad1.example.com.
.TP
.B \-D binddn
The distinguished name of the user to bind to the server as, eg. cn=admin,ou=usrs,dc=example,dc=com.
.TP
.B \-w password
The password to authenticate with.
.TP
.B \-b searchbase
The distinguished name of the base for any operations that involve searching the directory, eg. ou=users,dc=example,dc=com.
.SH OPERATIONS
.TP
.B usercreate <username> <container>        
create a new user
.TP
.B userdelete <username>
delete a user
.TP
.B userlock <username>                    
disable a user account
.TP
.B userunlock <username>
enable a user account
.TP
.B setpass <user> [password]
set user's password.  The password can be entered either as an argument or interactively, in which case it is not echoed back to the screen.
.TP
.B usermove <user> <new container>
move user to another container
.TP
.B userrename <old username> <new username>
rename user
.TP
.B computercreate <name> <container>        
create a new computer account
.TP
.B groupcreate <group name> <container>
create a new group
.TP
.B groupdelete <group name>
delete a group
.TP
.B groupadduser <group> <user>
add a user to a group
.TP
.B groupremoveuser <group> <user>
remove a user from a group
.TP
.B groupsubtreeremove <container> <user>
remove a user from all groups below a given ou
.TP
.B oucreate <organizational unit name> <container>
create a new organizational unit
.TP
.B oudelete <organizational unit name>
delete an organizational unit
.TP
.B attributeget <object> <attribute>
display attribute values
.TP
.B attributeadd <object> <attribute> <value>
add an attribute
.TP
.B attributeaddbinary <object> <attribute> <filename>
add an attribute from a file
.TP
.B attributereplace <object> <attribute> <value>
replace an attribute
.TP
.B attributedelete <object> <attribute> [value]
delete an attribute or attribute instance
.TP
.B search <attribute> <value>
simple ldap search

.SH CONFIGURATION
The command line options can instead be specified in a configuration file.  An example is installed to (install prefix)/etc/adtool.cfg.dist.  Rename this to adtool.cfg and edit as appropriate.
.TP
.B uri
server to connect to
.TP
.B binddn
distinguished name of the user to bind to the server as.
.TP
.B bindpw
password to bind to the server with.
.TP
.B searchbase
base for search operations.

.SH AUTHOR
Mike Dawson 
<mjd@dexy.mine.nu> 
http://dexy.mine.nu/adtool/

